# When Windows Lies

- URL: https://windowsir.blogspot.com/2022/08/when-windows-lies.html
- Published: 2022-08-27T07:28:00.001-05:00
- Updated: 2022-08-27T07:28:19.120-05:00
- Labels: none

"When Windows Lies"...what does that really mean?
 Mari had a fascinating blog post on this topic some years ago; she talked about the process DFIR analysts had been using to that point to determine the installation date of the operating system. In short...and this has happened several more times since then...while DFIR analysts had been using one process to assess the installation date, Windows developers had changed how this information is stored and tracked in Windows systems, reaffirming the notion that operating systems are NOT designed and maintained with forensic examiners in mind. ;-)
 The take-away from Mari's blog article...for me, anyway...is the need for analysts to keep up-to-date with changes to the operating system; storage locations, log formats, etc., can (and do) change without notice. Does this mean that every analyst has to invest in research to keep up on these things? No, not at all...this is why we have a community, where this research and these findings are shared. But as she mentioned in the title and content of the article, if we just keep following our same methods, we're going to end up finding that "Windows lies". This idea or concept is not new; I've talked about the need for validation previously.
 Earlier this year, a researcher used a twist on that title to talk about the "lies" analysts tools will "tell" them , specifically when it comes to USB device serial numbers. I understand the author presented at the recent SANS DFIR Summit; unfortunately, I was not able to view the presentation due to a previous commitment. However, if the content was similar, I'm not sure I'd use the term "lies" to describe what was happening here.
 The author does a great job of documenting the approach they took in the article, with lots of screen captures. However, when describing the T300D Super Speed Toaster , the author states:
 ...I would have expected a device such as this to simply be a pass-through device.
 I've used a lot of imaging devices in my time, but not this one; even so, just looking at the system (and without reading the online description of the device) I can't say that I would have assumed, in a million years, that this was simply a "pass-through device". Just looking at the front of the device, there's a good bit going on, and given that this is a "disk dock" for duplicating drives, I'm not at all sure that the designers took forensics processes into account.
 As a result, in this case, the take-away isn't that it's about Windows "lying", as much as it is...once again...the analyst's assumptions. If the analyst feels that what they "know" is beyond reproach, and do not recognize what they "know" as assumption (even if it's more of, "...but that's how we've always done it..."), then it would appear that Windows is "lying" to them. So, again, we have the need for validation, but this time we've added the layer of "check your assumptions".
 Earlier this year, Krz posted a pretty fascinating article , using the term "fools" in the title, as in "Windows fools you". In that case, what he meant was that during updates, Windows will "do things" as part of the update functionality that have an impact on subsequent response and analysis. As such, an analyst with minimal experience or visibility may assume that the "thing" done was the result of a threat actor's actions, simply because they weren't aware that this is "normal Windows functionality".
 It's pretty clear that the use of the term "lies" is meant to garner attention to the content. Yes, it's absolutely critical that analysts understand the OS and data they're working with (including file formats ), how their tools work, and when necessary, use multiple tools. But it's also incumbent upon analysts to check their assumptions and validate their findings, particularly when there's ample data to help dispel those assumptions. Critical thinking is paramount for DFIR analysts, and I think that both authors did a very good job in pointing that out.
