# Analysis: Situational Awareness + Timelines

- URL: https://windowsir.blogspot.com/2022/09/analysis-situational-awareness-timelines.html
- Published: 2022-09-03T06:37:00.001-05:00
- Updated: 2022-09-03T06:37:52.168-05:00
- Labels: none

I've talked and written about timelines as an analysis process for some time, in both this blog and in my books, because I've seen time and again over the years the incredible value in approaching an investigation by developing a timeline (including mini- and micro-timelines, and overlays), rather than leaving the timeline as something to be manually created in a spreadsheet after everything else is done.
 Now, I know timelines can be "messy", in part because there's a LOT of activity that goes on on a system, even when it's "idle", such as Windows and application updates. This content can "muck up" a timeline and make it difficult to distill the malicious activity, particularly when discerning that malicious activity is predicated solely on the breadth of the analyst's knowledge and experience. Going back to my early days of "doing" IR, I remember sitting at an XP machine, opening the Task Manager, and seeing that third copy of svchost.exe running. I'd immediately drill in on that item, and the IT admin would be asking me, "...what were you looking at??" The same is true when it comes to timelines...there are going to be things that will immediately jump out to one analyst, were another analyst may not have experienced the same thing, and not developed the knowledge that this particular event was "malicious", or at least suspicious.

 Now, let's add to that the idea of "indicators as composite objects". I'm not going to go into detail discussing this topic, because I stole borrowed it from Joe Slowik ; to get a really good view into this topic, give Joe's RSA 2022 presentation a listen; it's under an hour and chock full of great stuff!
 So, what this means is that we're going to have events in our timeline that are really composite objects. This means that the context of those events may not be readily available or accessible for a single system or incident. For example, we may see a "Microsoft-Windows-Security-Auditing/4625" event in the timeline, indicating a failed login attempt. But that event also includes additional factors...the login type, the login source, username, etc., all of which can have a significant impact...or not...on our investigation. But here we have a timeline with hundreds, or more likely, thousands of events, and no real way to develop situational awareness beyond our own individual experiences.
 Or, do we?
 In order to try to develop more value and insight from timeline data, I developed Events Ripper , a proof of concept tool based on RegRipper that provides a means for digging deeper into individual events and providing analysts with insight and situational awareness they might not otherwise have, due to the volume of data, lack of experience, etc. In addition to addressing the issue of composite objects, this tool also serves, like RegRipper, to preserve corporate knowledge and intrusion intel, in that a plugin developed by one analyst is shared with all analysts, and the wealth of that analyst's knowledge and experience is available to the rest of the team regardless of their status, in an operational manner.
 The basic idea behind Events Ripper is that an analyst is developing a timeline and wants to take things a step further and develop some modicum of situational awareness. The timeline process used results in an "events file" being created; this is an intermediate file between the raw data ($MFT, *.evtx, Registry hives, SRUM DB, etc.) and the timeline. The "events file" is a text file, with each line consisting of an event in the 5-field TLN format.
 For example, one plugin runs across all login (Security-Auditing/4624) events, and distinguishes between type 2, 3, and 10 logins, and presents source IP addresses for the type 3 and type 10 logins. Using this plugin, I was able to quickly determine that a system was accessible from the raw Internet via both file sharing and RDP. Another plugin does something similar for failed logins , in addition to translating the sub-status reason for the failed attempt.
 The current set of plugins available with the tool are focused on Windows Event Log records from some of the various log files. As such, an analyst can run Events Ripper across an events file consisting of multiple data sources, or can opt to do so after parsing just the Windows Event Log files, as described in the tool readme . As this is provided as a standalone Windows executable, it can also be included in an automated process where data is received through 'normal' intake processes, and then parsed prior to being presented to the analyst.
 Like RegRipper, Events Ripper was intended for the development and propagation of corporate knowledge. You can write a plugin that looks for something specific in an event, a combination of elements within an event, or correlate events across the events file, and add Analysis Tips to the plugin, sharing things like reference URLs and other items the analyst may want to consider. Adding this plugin to your own corporate repo means that the experience and knowledge developed in investigating and unraveling this event (or combination of events) is no longer limited or restricted to just the analyst who did that work; now, it's shared with all analysts, even those who haven't yet joined your team.

 At the moment, there are 16 plugins, but like RegRipper, this is likely to expand over time as new investigations develop and new ways of looking at the data are needed.
