# AmCache Revisited

- URL: https://windowsir.blogspot.com/2022/09/amcache-revisited.html
- Published: 2022-09-10T08:14:00.001-05:00
- Updated: 2022-09-10T08:14:10.320-05:00
- Labels: none

Not long ago, I posted about When Windows Lies , and that post really wasn't so much about Windows "lying", per se, as it was about challenging analyst assumptions about artifacts, and recognizing misconceptions. Along the same lines, I've also posted about the (Mis)Use of Artifact Categories , in an attempt to address the reductionist approach that leads analysts to oversimplify and subsequently misinterpret artifacts based on their perceived category (i.e., program execution, persistence, lateral movement, etc.). This misinterpretation of artifacts can lead to incorrect findings, and subsequently, incorrect recommendations for improvements to address identified issues.
 I recently ran across this LinkedIn post that begins by describing AmCache entries as "evidence of execution", which is somewhat counter to the seminal research conducted by Blanche Lagney regarding the AmCache.hve file, particularly with more recent versions of Windows 10. If you prefer a more auditory approach, there's also a Forensic Lunch where Blanche discussed her research (starts around 12:45), thanks to David and Matt! Suffice to say, data from the AmCache.hve file should not simply be considered as "evidence of execution", as it's far too reductionist; the artifact is much more nuanced that simply "evidence of execution". This overly simplistic approach is indicative of the misuse of artifact categories I mentioned earlier.
 Unfortunately, misconceptions as to the nature and value of artifacts such as this (and others, most notably, ShimCache) continue to exist because we continue to treat the artifacts in isolation, rather than as part of a system. Reviewing Blanche's paper in detail, for example, makes it clear that the value of specific portions of the AmCache data depend upon such factors as which keys/values are in question, as well as which version of Windows is being discussed. Given these nuances, it's easy to see how a reductionist approach evolves, leaving us simply with "AmCache == execution".
 What we need to do is look at artifacts not in isolation, but in context with other data sources (Registry, WEVTX, etc.). This is important because artifacts can be manipulated; for example, there've been instances where malware (a PCI scraper) was written to disk and immediately "time stomped", using the time stamps from kernel32.dll to make it appear that the malware had always been part of the system. As a result, when the $STANDARD_INFORMATION attribute last modification time was included in the ShimCache entry for the malware, the analyst misinterpreted this as the time of execution, and reported a "window of compromise" of 4 years to the PCI Council, rather than a more correct 3 weeks. The "window of compromise" reported by the analyst is used, in part, to determine fines to be levied against the merchant/victim.
 So, yes...we need to first learn about artifacts by themselves, as we begin learning. We need to develop an understanding of the nature of an artifact, particularly how many artifacts and IOCs need to be viewed as compound objects (shoutz to Joe Slowik !). However, when we get to the next artifact, we then need to start viewing artifacts in the context of other artifacts, and understand how to go about developing artifact constellations that help us clearly demonstrate the behaviors we're seeing, the behaviors that drive our findings.
 The overall take-away here, as with other instances, is that we have to recognize when we're viewing artifacts in isolation, and then avoid doing so. If some circumstance prevents correlation across multiple data sources, then we need to acknowledge this in our reporting, and clearly state our findings as such.
