# Data Collection

- URL: https://windowsir.blogspot.com/2022/10/data-collection.html
- Published: 2022-10-18T19:25:00.000-05:00
- Updated: 2022-10-18T19:25:16.244-05:00
- Labels: none

During IR engagements, like many other analysts, I've seen different means of data exfiltration. During one engagement, the customer stated that they'd "...shut off all of our FTP servers...", but apparently "all" meant something different to them, because the threat actor found an FTP server that hadn't been shut off and used it to first transfer files out of the infrastructure to that server, and then from the server to another location. This approach may have been taken due to the threat actor discovering some modicum of monitoring going on within the infrastructure, and possibly being aware that FTP traffic going to a known IP address would not be flagged as suspicious or malicious.

 During another incident, we saw the threat actor archive collected files and move them to an Internet-accessible web server, download the archives from the web server and then delete the archives. In that case, we collected a full image of the system, recovered about a dozen archives from unallocated space, and were able to open them; we'd captured the command line used to archive the files, including the password. As a result, we were able to share with the customer exactly what was taken, and this allowed us to understand a bit more about the threat actor's efforts and movement within the infrastructure.
 When I was first writing books, the publisher wanted me to upload manuscripts to their FTP site, and rather than using command line FTP, or a particularly GUI client utility, they provided instructions for me to connect to their FTP site via Windows Explorer. What I learned from that was that the evidence of the connection to the FTP site appeared my shellbags . Very cool.
 Okay, so those are some ways to get data off of a system; what about data collection? What are some different ways that data can be collected?
 Clipboard
 Earlier this year, Lina blogged about performing clipboard forensics , which is not something I'd really thought about (not since 2008 , at least), as it was not something I'd ever really encountered. MITRE does list the clipboard as a data collection technique , and some research revealed that some malware that targets crypto wallets will either get the contents of the clipboard, or replace the contents of the clipboard with their own crypto wallet address.
 Perl has a module for interacting with the Windows clipboard , as do other programming languages, such as Python. This makes it easy to interact with the clipboard, either extracting data from it, or 'pasting' data into it. You can view the contents of the clipboard by hitting "Windows Logo + V" on your keyboard.

 Digging into Lina's blog post led me to this ThinkDFIR post on "Clippy history", and just like it says there, once the clipboard history is enabled, the %AppData%\Microsoft\Windows\Clipboard folder is created. Much like what the ThinkDFIR post describes, if the user pins an item in their clipboard, additional data is created in the Clipboard folder, including JSON files that contain time stamps, all of which can be used by forensic analysts. The contents of the files themselves that contain the saved data are encrypted, however...there does seem to be (from the ThinkDFIR post comments) a tool available for decrypting and viewing the contents, but I haven't tried it.
 Suffice to say that while the system is active, it's possible to have malware running via an autostart location or as a scheduled task, that can retrieve the contents of the clipboard as a data collection technique. Lina pointed out another means of performing clipboard "forensics" ; beyond memory analysis, parsing the user's ActivitiesCache.db file may offer some possibilities.
 Additional Resources
 Cellebrite - Syncing Across Devices - Logging into multiple systems using the same Microsoft ID
 ForensicFocus - An Investigator's Goldmine
 Fig 2: Printer Properties Dialog Printers And KeepPrintedJobs
 Another means for collecting data to gain insight into an organization is by setting printers to retain copies of print jobs, rather than deleting them once the job is complete. This is a particularly insidious means of data collection, because it's not something admins, analysts, or responders usually check for, as even for some of us who've been in the industry for some time, the general understanding is the print jobs are deleted by default, once they've completed.
 We say, "can be used", but has it been? According to MITRE, it has, by a group referred to as "TajMahal ". This group has been observed using the Modify Registry technique as a means of data collection, specifically setting the KeepPrintedJobs attribute via the Registry. The printer properties dialog is visible in figure 2, with the KeepPrintedJobs attribute setting highlighted.
 While there isn't a great deal of detail around the Tah Mahal group's activities, Kaspersky mentioned their capability for stealing data in this manner in April 2019. The story was also picked up by Wired.com , SecureList and Schneier on Security .
 Fig 3: Print Job Files The spool (.spl) and shadow (.shd) files are retained in the C:\Windows\System32\spool\PRINTERS folder, as illustrated in figure 3. The .spl file is an archive, and can be opened in archive tools such as 7-Zip. Within that archive, I found the text of the page I'd printed out (in my test of the functionality) in the file " Documents\1\Pages\1.fpage\[0].piece " within the archive.
 I did some quick Googling for an SPL file viewer, more out of interest rather than wanting to actually do so. I found a few references, including an Enscript from OpenText , but nothing I really felt comfortable downloading.
 Conclusion
 There are more things in heaven and earth, dear reader, than are dreamt of in your philosophy...or your forensics class. As far as data collection goes, there are password stealers like Predator the Thief that try to collect credentials from a wide range of applications, and then there's just straight up grabbing files, including PST files, contents of a user's Downloads folder, etc. But then, there are other ways to collect sensitive data from users, such as from the clipboard, or from files they printed and then deleted...and thought were just...gone.
