# Deriving Value From Open Reporting

- URL: https://windowsir.blogspot.com/2023/04/deriving-intel-from-open-reporting.html
- Published: 2023-04-07T10:01:00.004-05:00
- Updated: 2023-04-08T06:49:44.497-05:00
- Labels: none

Sometimes, open reporting will reference incident response activities , and then focus solely on malware reverse engineering. In these cases, information about what would be observed on the endpoint needs to be discerned through indirect means. However, other open reporting, particularly what's available from TheDFIRReport , is much more comprehensive and provides much clearer information regarding the impact of the incident and the threat actor's activities on the endpoint, making it much easier on SOC and DFIR analysts to pursue investigations.
 Let's take a look at some of what's shared in a recent write-up of a ransomware incident that started with a "malicious" ISO file. Right away, we get the initial access vector from the title of the write-up!
 Before we jump in, though, we're not going to run through the entire article; the folks at TheDFIRReport have done a fantastic job of documenting what they saw six ways to Sunday, and there's really no need to run through everything in the article! Also, this is not a criticism, nor a critique, and should not be taken as such. Instead, what I'm going to do here is simply expand a bit on a couple of points of the article, nothing more. What I hope you take away from this is that there's a good bit of value within write-ups such as this one , value beyond just the words on paper.
 The incident described in the article started with a phishing email, delivering a ZIP archive that contained an ISO file, which in turn contained an LNK file. There's a lot to unravel, just at this point. First off, the email attachment (by default) will have the MOTW attached to it, and MOTW propagation to the ISO file within the archive will depend up on the archival tool used to open it.
 Once the archive is opened, the user is presented with the ISO file, and by default, Windows systems allow the user to automatically mount the disk image file by double-clicking it. However, this behavior can be easily modified , for free, while still allowing users to access disk image files programmatically, particularly as part of legitimate business processes. In the referenced Huntress blog post , Dray/ @Purp1eW0lf provided Powershell code that you can just copy out of the blog post and execute on your system(s), and users will be prevented from automatically mounting disk image files by double-clicking on them, while still allowing users to access the files programmatically, such as mounting VHD files via the Disk Manager.

 Next, Microsoft issued a patch in Nov 2022 that enables MOTW propagation inside mounted disk images files; had the system in this incident been patched, the user would have been presented with a warning regarding launching the LNK file. The section of the article that addresses defense evasion states, "These packages are designed to evade controls such as Mark-of-the-Web restrictions." This is exactly right, and it works...if the archival tool used to open the zip file does not propagate MOTW to the ISO file, then there's nothing to be propagated to from the ISO file to the embedded LNK file, even if the patch is installed.
 Let's take a breather here for a second...take a knee. We're still at the initial access point of an incident that resulted in the domain-wide deployment of ransomware; we're at the desk of that one user who received the phishing email, and the malicious actions haven't been launched yet...and we've identified three points at which we could have inhibited (archiver tool, patched system) or obviated (enable programmatic disk image file access only) the rest of the attack chain. I bring this up because many times we hear how much security "costs", and yet, there's a free bit of Powershell that can be copied out of a blog post , that could have been applied to all systems and literally stopped this attack cycle that, according to the timeline spanned 5 days, in its tracks. The "cost" of running Dray's free Powershell code versus the "cost" of an infrastructure being encrypted and ransomed...what do those scales look like to you?
 Referencing the malicious ISO file, the article demonstrates how the user mounting the disk image file can be detected via the Windows Event Log, stating that the "activity can be tracked with Event 12 from Microsoft-Windows-VHDMP/Operational" Event Log. Later, in the "Execution" section of the article, they state that "Application crashes are recorded in the Windows Application event log under Event ID 1000 and 1001", as a result of...well...the application crashing. Not only can both of these events be extracted as analysis pivot points using Events Ripper , but the application crashes observed in this incident serve to make my point regarding validation , specifically with respect to analysts validating findings.
 The article continues illustrating the impact of the attack chain on the endpoint, referencing several other Windows Event Log records, several of which (i.e., "Service Control Manager/7045" events) are also covered/addressed by Events Ripper .
 Conclusion
 Articles like this one, and others from TheDFIRReport, are extremely valuable to the community. Where a good bit of open reporting articles will include things like, "...hey, we had 41 Sobinokibi ransomware response engagements in the first half of the year..." but then do an in-depth RE of one sample, with NO host-based impact or artifacts mentioned, articles such as this one do a great job of laying the foundation for artifact constellations, so that analysts can validate findings, and then use that information to help develop protections, detections, and response procedures for future engagements. Sharing this kind of information means that it's much easier for detect incidents like these much earlier in the attack cycle, with the goal of obviating file encryption.
