# Round Up

- URL: https://windowsir.blogspot.com/2023/12/round-up.html
- Published: 2023-12-18T08:14:00.001-05:00
- Updated: 2023-12-18T08:19:48.700-05:00
- Labels: none

You'll have to bear with me...this is one of those write-ups where images and figures aren't numbered. However, in the section marked "Initial Access", there's some really good information shared, specifically where it says, "SQL Server event ID 18456 Failure Audit Events in the Windows application logs:"...specifically, what they're looking at is MSSQLServer/18456 events in the Application Event Log, indicating a failed login attempt to the server (as opposed to the OS). This is why I wrote the Events Ripper mssql.pl plugin. I'd seen a number of systems running Veeam and MSSQL, and needed a straightforward, consistent, repeatable means to determine if  a compromise of Veeam was the culprit, or if something else had occurred.

 While I do agree that blog posts like this are extremely valuable in reminding of us of the value/importance of certain artifacts, we need to take an additional step to normalize a more comprehensive approach; that is, we need to consistently drive home the point that we shouldn't just be looking at a single artifact . We need to normalize and reinforce the understanding that there is no go-to artifact for any evidence category, when we should be considering artifact constellations, and that constellation will depend upon the base OS version and software load of the endpoint. Understanding default constellations, as part of a base software load (OS, minimal applications) is imperative, as is having a process to build out that constellation based on additional installed software (Sysmon, LANDesk Software Monitoring, etc.).
 Something to keep in mind is that access via the shell has some advantages for the threat actor, one being that using GUI tools means that EDR is blind to most activity. EDR tools are great at recording process creation events, for example, but when the process (explorer.exe) already exists, what happens via the process that does not involve cmd.exe, PowerShell, WSL, or WSA (Windows Subsystem for Android) may not be visible to EDR. Yes, some EDR frameworks also monitor network connections, as well as Registry and file system modifications, but by necessity, those are often filtered. When a GUI tool is opened, EDR based on process creation events is largely blind to activity that occurs via drop-down boxes, check boxes, text fields, and buttons being pushed.
 For example, check out this recent Huntress blog where curl.exe was observed being used for data exfil (on the heels of this Huntress blog showing finger.exe being used for data exfil). In the curl blog, there's a description of MemProcFS being used for memory dumping; using a GUI tool essentially "blinds" EDR, because you (the analyst) can't see which buttons the threat actor pushes. We can assume that the 4-digit number listed in the minidump file path was the process ID, but the creation of that process was beyond the data retention window (the endpoint had not been recently rebooted...), so we weren't able to verify which process the threat actor targeted for the memory dump.
 Malware Write-ups
 Malware and threat actor write-ups need to include clear observables so that analysts can implement them, whether they're doing DFIR work, threat hunting, or working on writing detections. Here is Simone Kraus's write-up on the Rhysida ransomware ; I've got to tell you, it's chock full of detection and hunting opportunities. Like many write-ups, the images and listings aren't numbered, but about 1/4 of the way down the blog post, there's a listing of reg.exe commands meant to change the wallpaper to the ransom note, many of which are duplicates. What I mean by that is that you'll see a "cmd /c reg add" command, followed by a "reg.exe add" command with the same arguments in the command line. As Simone says, these are commands that the ransomware would execute...these commands are embedded in the executable itself; this is something we see with RaaS offerings, where commands for disabling services and the ability to recover the system are embedded within the EXE itself. In 2020, a sample of the Sodinokibi ransomware contained 156 unique commands, just for shutting off various Windows services. If your EDR tech allows for monitoring the Registry and disabling processes at the endpoint, this may be a good option to enable automated response rules. Otherwise, detecting these processes can lead to isolating endpoints, or the values themselves can be used for threat hunting across the enterprise.
 Something else that's interesting about the listing is that  the first two entries are misspelled; since the key path doesn't exist by default, the command will fail. It's likely that Simone simply cut-n-pasted these commands, and since they're embedded within the EXE, they likely will not be corrected without the EXE being recompiled. This misspelling provides an opportunity for a high fidelity threat hunt across EDR telemetry.
