# Registry Analysis

- URL: https://windowsir.blogspot.com/2025/10/registry-analysis.html
- Published: 2025-10-31T08:41:00.000-05:00
- Updated: 2025-10-31T08:41:03.676-05:00
- Labels: none

First off, what is "analysis"?

 I submit that "analysis" is what happens when an examiner has investigative goals and context, and applies this, along with their knowledge and experience, to a data set. This can be anything, from a physical image of a mobile device, to a triage collection from an endpoint, to logs from a device, or various devices.
 IMHO, this distinction is valuable, because what we often call "analysis" is really nothing more than parsing. For example, someone may recommend (or state as part of their process) that we open a Registry hive in a viewer, and navigate to a particular path by clicking through the UI. Now, there are ways that this could be accomplished in a much more efficient manner (I didn't say "easier", because the command line isn't "easier" for some), but in the end, looking for one value, dumping all of the values from a user's Run key is still just parsing; there's no "analysis" unless the investigator can articulate how this action and their finding applies to their goals.
 Registry Analysis
 That being said, again...what we most often think of, or refer to as "Registry analysis" really amounts to nothing more than simple parsing. Few are actually conducting analysis of the files that comprise the Windows Registry, largely because the knowledge of and experience with these files is often somewhat limited. For example...and you don't need to raise your hands...but how many analysts are incorporating Registry hive file metadata into timelines? Or incorporating deleted keys and values in their overall analysis plan?
 The Windows Registry includes a great deal of information related to the configuration of the endpoint, and for each user, contains information related to that user's activities. Not only does the Registry contain considerable metadata, but some of the values found within the Registry can contain valuable information regarding pre-existing states/conditions of the endpoint. For example, what we refer to as "shellbag" artifacts are comprised of shell items, strung together in shell item ID lists. Some of these shell items themselves contain considerable metadata, such as time stamps from folders, preserved at the time the "shellbag" artifacts were created.
 Something else to consider is that very often, information stored in the Registry will persist beyond the point where applications and files are deleted/removed from the endpoint.
 Over the years, the Windows Registry has gone through changes, but the analysis process remains the same, in part, because the binary format of the Registry remains consistent. What we traditionally refer to as "Registry analysis" now extends beyond "the usual" hive files that make up the Windows Registry, to the AmCache.hve file, as well as similarly formatted files associated with AppX packages. Ogmini's recent blog post regarding Registry hives associated with AppX packages references/points to Mari's ZeroFox blog on the topic, as well as Chris's Cyber Triage contribution , in addition to discussing sources beyond the "traditional" Registry.
 As these files are of the same format, there's no reason to believe that what we learned about the traditional hive files...metadata, what constitutes a "deleted" key or value, etc...needs to change when it comes to these files, as well. We can parse them for keys and values, such as looking for the recently accessed documents in the AppX version of Notepad or WordPad, just as we can parse these files into a timeline.
 Parting Thoughts
 Limitations or shortcomings in knowledge and experience of individual analysts can (and does) lead to the analysis and intel "poverty", and the shortcomings have a cascading impact. To overcome these, we need to work together, in mentor/mentee relationships, to build better, more applicable processes that allow us to fill these gaps. Operationalizing "corporate" knowledge for the long term is the key to this, as knowledge is shared without the requirement for commensurate experience.
